# Model-Car-Parking-Garage
For a midterm assignment for my summer 2025 mechatronics class, I made a model parking garage out of electronics and Lego for small model cars. The parking garage has a six-digit binary password input and parking space sensors to control which and how many cars are in the parking lot at a time. This project showcases the basics of mechatronics.
The project uses 1 Arduino Mega 2560 microcontroller or an equivalent, 2 infrared sensors, 2 ultrasound sensors, 2 5V DC motors, 1 L298N motor driver, 2 breadboards, 1 9V battery + battery pack that plugs into the microcontroller, 4 AA batteries with 1 4xAA Battery Pack, and plenty of wire. To construct the garage, I used Lego bricks, tape, and wire caps. I used the Lego, tape, and wire caps since I was on a limited budget with a time crunch, and I would recommend using different materials to construct the non-electronic parts of the garage.
It is important to use pulse-width modulation (PWM) with the motors to avoid destroying the gates, and you will have to do some trial and error with the PWM and activation times to get the gates to open and close properly. I would recommend swapping the DC motors out for servos instead of using the DC motors. If you swap the motors for servos, you may not need the L298N depending on the servo.
One improvement that I would make to this design would be to angle the ultrasound sensors so the gates do not accidentally close on the cars. This could also be achieved by adding another sensor as well.
